essays/star-trek-v-america.md, before:

# Star Trek v. America

In MANY, MANY WAYS, the next quote is a roadmap for EXACTLY WHY we will NEVER have anything like the future that is shown and promised in every iteration of Star Trek:

“The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. *The protection of these faculties is the first object of government.* From the protection of different and unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests and parties... the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. The regulation of these various and interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation, and involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and ordinary operation of government."

- James Madison, the Father of the American Constitution and future 4th President of the United States
Excerpt From "An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States" by
Charles A. Beard

The reason I use the notion of "Future 4th President" is because this essay, like every essay in this book, attempts to do a few things at the same time:

(1) Take the Originalist viewpoint and position that the Constitution should be interpreted strictly from the framers' thought models and explicated as to what was written in the text at the time for ALL future controversies
(2) By taking (1) seriously, it presupposes that the the Framers were omniscient at the time of the drafting of the Constitution and could know ALL possible outcomes and CHOSE the current set of outcomes that we currently experience. Why? Because that was what was best FOR THEM and who they thought would be their descendents, not just biologically, but also economically and politically.

At this point, you may be thinking? "That's crazy!" Possibly. However, that's the GOVERNINIG presupposition and philosophy that runs the Federalist Society, the conservative, Republican-aligned judicial society that thousands of lawyers and federal, state, and local district judges subscribe to. The current Republican-appointed supermajority on the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) are ALL Federalist Society members. Ergo, they are all governed by a theory of implicit Framer omniscience in their decision-making.

The purpose of this essay, and every essay in this book, is to make the implicit explicit. And to explore the omniscience of the Framers by way of another model, ["The Purpose of a System is What It Does" (POSIWID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_purpose_of_a_system_is_what_it_does)

Also, just to be clear, it could SEEM like the this book of essays is about judging the past from the future. It's actually the exact opposite: it's about thinking about HOW the Framers would have thought about our Present (their Future) and do their level best to try to stop it. One idea that they likely engaged in was [enshittification](https://pluralistic.net/2023/01/21/potemkin-ai/#hey-guys). By building in a process of automatic enshittification, whenever systems *changed*, the systemic response was to make the environment worse in order to justify preventing more fixes.

Why? To keep both political and economic power in the hands of white male oligarchs forever, no matter how much the country changes demographically.

I'm going to define a core idea here ("presupposition") and explain why it's so central to this book:

**A presupposition is something that is assumed to be true prior to making a statement. It forms part of the background beliefs or context for the statement to have meaning.**

There's a structural view of human nature that Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, and James Madison had that was presuppositional to EVERYTHING in the original Constitution. It was the idea that ONLY rich white men were people who deserved agency and freedom. If you weren't a rich white male with property, you WERE NOT A PERSON worthy of agency and freedom.

Let me say that again: If you weren't a rich white male with property, you WERE NOT A PERSON worthy of agency and freedom.

We often think the Framers were a group of brilliant dudes who made this gigantic philosophical jump from being the King's subjects to revolution to individual agency.

Nope. They were iterators not that different from me and you who AT BEST could only see a little bit past the current state of the art (which at the time was some mixture of the Magna Carter and the Protestant Reformation). The core innovation was that UNTITLED land owners (aka NOT barons) could actually have political agency and individual freedom. But even dealing with these free agents required some thought. How do you circumscribe them in such a way that they experience freedom but not so much that the system collapses?

This is where the rivalry between Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson comes in.

# Structural View of Human Nature

Hamilton was a big fan of Thomas Hobbes, a (English?) philosopher who believed that the inherent nature of mankind was "nasty, brutish and short". Hobbes grew up in a Christian society and this worldview was constructed likely through some kind of Calvinist doctrine of the "Total Depravity of Man". This presupposed that because of the Fall of Man from Genesis 2 of the Bible has EVERYONE be born in sin and therefore corrupt, mankind was therefore utterly corrupted and needed strong, authoritarian controls in order to not fuck up things too badly. Also, as a bonus, this view of human nature worked REALLY WELL as a governing philosophy for colonialism as well, because white Christian men are going in to foreign lands to bring savages to heel and bring Jesus to them.

Thomas Jefferson had a different point-of-view: he was a subscriber to a philosopher named Jean-Jacques Rousseau ("JJR"). JJR's philosophy was that humanity's starting point was a "state of nature" (feels like a pre-Fall of Man Garden of Eden vibe). JJR however also argued that when humanity invented capitalism, property, and civilization, that's when things started going off the rails and more government was needed.

Jefferson had a pretty strong conflict-of-interest about all this. Because he had inherited ALL of his property, both from his father when TJ was 14 and again and from John Wayles, after his marriage to Martha Wayles and had NEVER worked a day in his life to acquire property of his own, he wanted to be as UNFETTERED as possible (JJR) but he also wanted others who might be tempted to regulate his property to be prevented from taking or regulating his property.

Fortunately for both men, the solution to reconcile these wildly different views was to implicitly re-classify EVERYONE who wasn't in Constitution Hall in Philadelphia in the Summer of 1787 as "pets". Think about it:

- In divorce, parents STILL fight over "who has custody" over the child (implicitly in that is the question of "is the child property?")
- Once a woman marries a man, all of her property and agency are re-assigned to the man
- This also applied to slaves, laborers, Native American "savages", etc.

So yeah, once Hamilton, Jefferson and others were resolved to classify everyone who WAS NOT in the room as "pets", "We the People" really ONLY meant those oligarchs and their buddies were what the Constitution applied to in terms of enumerating "negative rights" to (meaning the government COULD NOT restrict you from something, but it also could not guarantee anything to be provided for, either). Which is quite convenient for the oligarch who already has everything he needs. It also conveniently prevents we pets from asking for things because WE DON'T MATTER in the political calculus. AND as a bonus: if we think we matter, when we actually don't, that's OUR delusion and problem, not the oligarchs.

Yes, there really are TWO Americas: one for the rich white male and one for the pets like us.

Commit message:

Started "star trek" portion of TVA essay

essays/star-trek-v-america.md, after:

# Star Trek v. America

In MANY, MANY WAYS, the next quote is a roadmap for EXACTLY WHY we will NEVER have anything like the future that is shown and promised in every iteration of Star Trek:

“The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to a uniformity of interests. *The protection of these faculties is the first object of government.* From the protection of different and unequal faculties of acquiring property, the possession of different degrees and kinds of property immediately results; and from the influence of these on the sentiments and views of the respective proprietors, ensues a division of the society into different interests and parties... the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society. Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination. A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into different classes, actuated by different sentiments and views. The regulation of these various and interfering interests forms the principal task of modern legislation, and involves the spirit of party and faction in the necessary and ordinary operation of government."

- James Madison, the Father of the American Constitution and future 4th President of the United States
Excerpt From "An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States" by
Charles A. Beard

The reason I use the notion of "Future 4th President" is because this essay, like every essay in this book, attempts to do a few things at the same time:

(1) Take the Originalist viewpoint and position that the Constitution should be interpreted strictly from the framers' thought models and explicated as to what was written in the text at the time for ALL future controversies
(2) By taking (1) seriously, it presupposes that the the Framers were omniscient at the time of the drafting of the Constitution and could know ALL possible outcomes and CHOSE the current set of outcomes that we currently experience. Why? Because that was what was best FOR THEM and who they thought would be their descendents, not just biologically, but also economically and politically.

At this point, you may be thinking? "That's crazy!" Possibly. However, that's the GOVERNINIG presupposition and philosophy that runs the Federalist Society, the conservative, Republican-aligned judicial society that thousands of lawyers and federal, state, and local district judges subscribe to. The current Republican-appointed supermajority on the Supreme Court of the United States (SCOTUS) are ALL Federalist Society members. Ergo, they are all governed by a theory of implicit Framer omniscience in their decision-making.

The purpose of this essay, and every essay in this book, is to make the implicit explicit. And to explore the omniscience of the Framers by way of another model, ["The Purpose of a System is What It Does" (POSIWID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_purpose_of_a_system_is_what_it_does)

Also, just to be clear, it could SEEM like the this book of essays is about judging the past from the future. It's actually the exact opposite: it's about thinking about HOW the Framers would have thought about our Present (their Future) and do their level best to try to stop it. One idea that they likely engaged in was [enshittification](https://pluralistic.net/2023/01/21/potemkin-ai/#hey-guys). By building in a process of automatic enshittification, whenever systems *changed*, the systemic response was to make the environment worse in order to justify preventing more fixes.

Why? To keep both political and economic power in the hands of white male oligarchs forever, no matter how much the country changes demographically.

I'm going to define a core idea here ("presupposition") and explain why it's so central to this book:

**A presupposition is something that is assumed to be true prior to making a statement. It forms part of the background beliefs or context for the statement to have meaning.**

There's a structural view of human nature that Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, and James Madison had that was presuppositional to EVERYTHING in the original Constitution. It was the idea that ONLY rich white men were people who deserved agency and freedom. If you weren't a rich white male with property, you WERE NOT A PERSON worthy of agency and freedom.

Let me say that again: If you weren't a rich white male with property, you WERE NOT A PERSON worthy of agency and freedom.

We often think the Framers were a group of brilliant dudes who made this gigantic philosophical jump from being the King's subjects to revolution to individual agency.

Nope. They were iterators not that different from me and you who AT BEST could only see a little bit past the current state of the art (which at the time was some mixture of the Magna Carter and the Protestant Reformation). The core innovation was that UNTITLED land owners (aka NOT barons) could actually have political agency and individual freedom. But even dealing with these free agents required some thought. How do you circumscribe them in such a way that they experience freedom but not so much that the system collapses?

This is where the rivalry between Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson comes in.

# Structural View of Human Nature

Hamilton was a big fan of Thomas Hobbes, a (English?) philosopher who believed that the inherent nature of mankind was "nasty, brutish and short". Hobbes grew up in a Christian society and this worldview was constructed likely through some kind of Calvinist doctrine of the "Total Depravity of Man". This presupposed that because of the Fall of Man from Genesis 2 of the Bible has EVERYONE be born in sin and therefore corrupt, mankind was therefore utterly corrupted and needed strong, authoritarian controls in order to not fuck up things too badly. Also, as a bonus, this view of human nature worked REALLY WELL as a governing philosophy for colonialism as well, because white Christian men are going in to foreign lands to bring savages to heel and bring Jesus to them.

Thomas Jefferson had a different point-of-view: he was a subscriber to a philosopher named Jean-Jacques Rousseau ("JJR"). JJR's philosophy was that humanity's starting point was a "state of nature" (feels like a pre-Fall of Man Garden of Eden vibe). JJR however also argued that when humanity invented capitalism, property, and civilization, that's when things started going off the rails and more government was needed.

Jefferson had a pretty strong conflict-of-interest about all this. Because he had inherited ALL of his property, both from his father when TJ was 14 and again and from John Wayles, after his marriage to Martha Wayles and had NEVER worked a day in his life to acquire property of his own, he wanted to be as UNFETTERED as possible (JJR) but he also wanted others who might be tempted to regulate his property to be prevented from taking or regulating his property.

Fortunately for both men, the solution to reconcile these wildly different views was to implicitly re-classify EVERYONE who wasn't in Constitution Hall in Philadelphia in the Summer of 1787 as "pets". Think about it:

- In divorce, parents STILL fight over "who has custody" over the child (implicitly in that is the question of "is the child property?")
- Once a woman marries a man, all of her property and agency are re-assigned to her husband
- This also applied to slaves, laborers, Native American "savages", etc.

So yeah, once Hamilton, Jefferson, Madison and others were resolved to classify everyone who WAS NOT in the room as "pets", "We the People" really ONLY meant those oligarchs and their buddies were what the Constitution applied to in terms of enumerating "negative rights" to (meaning the government COULD NOT restrict you from something, but it also could not guarantee anything to be provided for). Which is quite convenient for the oligarch who already has everything he needs. It also conveniently prevents we pets from asking for things because WE DON'T MATTER in the political calculus. AND as a bonus: if we think we matter, when we actually don't, that's OUR delusion and problem, not the oligarchs.

So it's **EASY** to make up that there are TWO AMERICAS: one for the rich white male that should have power forever and one for the rest of us pets. However, that's just not true. It's ONE house, with rules and assumptions for the owners (the oligarchs) and rules for the pets (the non-oligarchs). And just to be clear: an American oligarch is someone who is a white male who has a net worth of $100M or higher.

I have no doubt this division can feel ARBITRARY to the reader, and that's the point. It IS arbitrary, based on the assumptions of 1787 and WHO the Framers said ACTUALLY mattered. Again, read the James Madison quote at the beginning of this essay. There's a LOT MORE to this which will be covered in other essays, but in essence, what the oligarchs were trying to do was create a set of operational and narrative constructs to shut down any challenge to their power then, now, or in the future. They REALLY thought (and James Madison basically said so) that they should have power and property FOREVER and the government's first job is to guarantee the stability of that economic and political power, no matter how much the country changes.

To the oligarchs, the ideas that are expressed and encapsulated in the Star Trek multiverse would be crazy-making and anathema because it would FORCE THEM to have to compete for political and sexual power, as well as be challenged by the idea that economic power games like capitalism were more ethereal. Let's go through the list of ideas expressed in Star Trek that would make a dude like James Madison crazy:

- Presuppositional commitment to pure empiricism

The idea that you'd have to actually measure and collect the data from a  phenomena, and THEN have a commitment to that data taking the scientist where it goes, rather than something that is automatically predisposed to supporting rich white dudes acquiring even more money would be clinically insane to the dudes of 1787.

- The JJR view of Human Nature being basically good

Humans would be operating as adults and practicing decent emotional self-regulation. They wouldn't play the victim and they'd also take responsibility when things weren't working. They'd also actively resist allowing their system of governance (the Federation, Starfleet, and various member planets) to enshittify themselves.

What's the fun in that for the rich white dudes? I mean, if they can't exploit prey on someone else's psychological or systemic weaknesses, what is the actual point of its existence?

- Adult men and women are automatically given equality, both narratively and societally

Setting aside all the controversy around gender roles and their pronouns, the typical man and woman in the Federation starts off automatically equal independent of their "status", because status (beyond Starfleet ranks) doesn't really exist. Men and women and non-binaries are basically equal, and can initiate and engage in mating rituals with reputational, familial, or economic consequences beyond whether or not they break their specific relationship contracts with their partners. Also, women get to keep their property before and after a relationship as opposed to having it automatically assigned to their spouse and losing it in the wake of a breakup or a divorce.

The Framers would be HORRIFIED at this idea. After all, if they couldn't force sex on anyone they wanted to have sex with, how would they EVER get laid? Also, being the beneficiaries of "marital property rights" is probably the fastest way for them to actually succeed: just marry a rich widow and watch all of her inheritance transfer to you (this is something that happened to George Washington and Thomas Jefferson).

Never mind the fact that if women could actually challenge men politically and economically, than a lot of the economically soft rich white dudes (Madison, Jefferson, and Washington) might never have ascended at all. That thought HORRIFIED our blessed Framers: the idea that women MIGHT actually have good ideas worthy of being listened to? That's insane. That's like saying my Golden Retriever should be listened to for governance of the household, as opposed to only producing puppies and being available for Jefferson and Madison to fuck and breed whenever they wanted to.

SPECIAL NOTE: At this point, you should be thinking something like "wow, that implication of bestiality is gross man" and you'd be spot-on. But since non-rich white dudes were considered pets, whenever a rich white dude has sex with a pet, that's BESTIALITY. A weird form, to be sure, but stil a form.

SECOND SPECIAL NOTE: Unless you're a rich white dude, the government still classifies you as a pet.
